---
layout: post
title: "PTL #10 - Self"
category: workshop
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<p class='sublead'>“How might we increase self-awareness and understand leadership style?”</p>
<!--more-->

Facilitated by Mic, Mul and Nas

What we learnt:
- Experiential Learning Cycle and RSVP Fundamentals of Leadership
- Revisiting on Product Person Canvas and journal for increasing self-awareness

## Experiential Learning Cycle and RSVP Model Leadership

One the most important challenge in leadership today is to develop competence in adjusting to a radically altered environment. 

{% include image-full.html file="/2021/10/ptl10-2c.JPG" alt="Topic" caption="Leading in Learning Way"%} 

According to **RSVP Model**, there area four key leadership functions required: 
- relationship mastery 
- strategy mastery 
- vision mastery 
- performance mastery  

Central to achieve such proficiency is the ability to deliberately learn from experience. The **Experiential Learning Theory (ELT)** by Kolb (1984) provides lens to integrate feeling, perceiving, thinking, and doing for effective experiential learning. 

{% include image-full.html file="/2021/10/ptl10-2a.JPG" alt="Topic" caption="Leading in Learning Way"%} 

In ELT, the experiential learning space is defined by the attracting and repelling forces of experiencing-thinking and reflecting-doing. Learning proceeds as a recursive cycle and results from the integration of four learning modes: concrete experience, reflective observation, abstract conceptualization, and active experimentation. This basic concepts of learning cycle, learning styles, learning space, learning skills described in ELT can be used for training, coaching, team and leadership development.

## Constellation
The cohort also reflected various dimensions of product leadership (Decisions, Trust, Sustainability, Resilience, Mentorship, Ownership, etc) explored in the past 5 months. We found Top 3 key topics that our cohort understood the most are: Relationship building (5 votes), Facilitating conversation (4) and Leadership (4).

We then explored 2 approaches to help further understanding of those topics and apply them in our work:

- **What can you do to help yourself?**  
This is self-work that’s within our control. Product Person Canvas and the learning backlog can be our compass to identify which topics we need to put more focus on.
{% include image-full.html file="/2021/10/ptl10-3.JPG" alt="Topic" caption="Product Person Canvas"%} 
{% include image-full.html file="/2021/10/ptl10-4.JPG" alt="Topic" caption="Learning Backlog"%} 

- **What can others do to help you?**   
When self-work is taken care of, then we can turn to others. Appreciative interview is the manifestation of this — we ask others to help identify the AHAs for us and reduces our blindspot. 
{% include image-full.html file="/2021/10/ptl10-5.JPG" alt="Topic" caption="Appreciative Interview"%} 

## Sailboat
Last but not least, the group recap and shared key learning points about product leadership

{% include image-full.html file="/2021/10/ptl10-6.JPG" alt="Topic" caption=""%}

**Attribute of Success being a Product Leader**
- Curiosity, Honesty
- Mental resilience, EQ, Empathy
- Facilitative and Listening skills
- Goal and “Knowing when to let go”

**Challenge of being a Product Leader**
- Building culture
- Courage to take ownership (difficult conversations)
- Ego - Being at peace with things you can't control, Letting go
- KPI Pressure

### Side Quest
- [Leading in a Learning Way](https://maraineyassociates.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/Leading-in-a-Learning-Way.pdf)
